---
layout: post
title: "Increasing Password Strength"
author: skylar_lynner
---

Some of the quickest and easiest password advice is now built into account creation for many websites. These suggestions often include length requirements, including specific character sets, and can even provide feedback on the estimated strength of the password. Many try to pass these suggestions with a password that is still easy to remember, but what these tools are often missing is the added suggestions for how to make passwords that are difficult to guess while still maintianing some meaning to allow for easier recall when logging in.

While it may be tempting to pick a password that is simple enough to easily remember while still meeting the password requirements, there are some techniques that can help to make a password feel easy to remember while not resembling something obvious. Implementing one or more strategies results in a password that provides better account security. Some techniques to improve the technique would be to select multiple words strung together rather than just one word to create a passphrase, obscuring the password in a way that is easy enough to remember, but not obvious to figure out. This technique could also involve selecting initials of the words in a sentence that could be remembered in order to select a string of characters. Another solution for those who want to ensure different passwords for different accounts without the need to create complicated unique passwords every time is to instead opt to use a password generator to create a password that will contain a sequence of random characters.

The options for creating a more secure account login have never been better. Along with many methods for selecting a secure password, there are also other tools, including password managers to keep passwords in an encrypted location protected by a master password or two-factor authentication that is becoming more commong. More information on password security, tools, and strategies to protect passwords can all be found in this article, ["How to create a good and strong password"](https://cybernews.com/best-password-managers/how-to-create-a-strong-password/) by Mindagas Jancis.
