---
layout: post
title: "Increasing Firefox's Privacy Experience"
author: skylar_lynner
categories: [ security ]
---

One of the quickest ways to increase Internet security is to choose a web browser that provides a private experience. While there are many browsers to choose from, Firefox stands out as a commonly used browser that also offers a variety of privacy features. These settings can be accessed through the browser's Settings Menu or by editing the about:config settings. There are also a variety of add-ons and extensions that can be used to further increase security if used selectively.

Firefox has been a popular choice for many years when it comes to providing a customized browsing experience with an increasing list of security features built in. One of these features Firefox has added is its own extension that functions as a proxy to encrypt traffic through the Firefox browser. There are many settings that can be managed by the user through either the settings menu or through the about:config page. These settings can be adjusted to limit browser fingerprinting, data sharing, choose a private search engine, such as DuckDuckGo or Startpage, and even custom options for content blocking.

While it is tempting to add many extensions to the browser to increase features, it is important to be selective with the ones that are chosen. Extensions can become redundant with settings changes or other extensions. They can also add to bloat and possibly break website functionality if discretion is not practiced. A good start would be to install an ad blocker, HTTPS Everywhere, and Decentraleyes. This would help filter ads, limit tracking, provide an HTTPS connection to websites, and hopefully improve overall experience without causing too much interruption when using various websites.

While it is easy to make many of these changes all at once, it would be recommended to incrementally update browser settings to prevent disruptions in website functionality and to limit changes to the settings that can be understood well enough to troubleshoot or undo if needed.

For more about configuring Firefox for increased privacy, Sven Taylor's article on Restore Privacy called ["Firefox Privacy - The Complete How-To Guide"](https://restoreprivacy.com/firefox-privacy/) provides specific recommendations and further information about each of the tools provided through the Firefox browser.
