## With Features Comes Increased Security Need
With the introduction of the Tandem t:slim X2 there was a significant shift in diabetes technology. This device incorporates Bluetooth connection to allow for app synchronization, connection with Dexcom's CGM (Continuous Glucose Monitor), and Control-IQ technology, which assists with blood sugar management by utilizing predictive statistics to provide alerts and adjust insulin levels.

Other devices have integrated a CGM experience into insulin pump therapy, but the Control-IQ marks a new categorization of medical devices that includes an outline of requirements  held to a higher standard of acceptable performance, cybersecurity, and device interoperability to assist in bringing rapid development.

As with many advances in technology, these extra features provide great experiences in usage when they are implemented as well as the t:slim appears to have done, but they also provide challenges that must be addressed with cybersecurity. These devices are worn 24/7 by their users, meaning that if there is a vulnerability in the communication between the devices (typically including for a user their insulin pump, CGM, and phone connected through Bluetooth), they depend on the ability for a quick resolution.

While the ability for the device to be updated was likely implemented to adhere to the need to provide security updates in circumstances where vulnerability may be found, it also provides users with what was previously unheard of in insulin pump therapy: the ability to receive device updates. Manufacturers of insulin pumps had previously resisted, opting to release a new device and provide free upgrades to those who had recently purchased rather than providing an upgrade to those who already have the device. Tandem's t:slim X2 provides a device that can receive updates and provide users with online training for any new features included in the update.

Tandem's response to Bluetooth vulnerability concerns and device communication provides more details regarding the security of their devices in this post, [Device Communication and Data Security](https://www.tandemdiabetes.com/blog/post/device-and-data-security).
