## Spyware or Just Advertising

With the shift across the internet to follow regulations regarding the use of cookies, it has become more clear to the average user just how often they are used across the internet to improve the functionality of the website. What becomes more difficult to discern is where the line is drawn as far as what is acceptable use of data collection when it comes to collecting advertising data versus crossing the line and violating the user's privacy. When it comes to this type of data collection, it is often used to generate revenue for its creator, which adds social significance to the transaction.

Some of this data is used to improve experience, such as saving items in a cart or improving article suggestions, which can be innocent enough and like most cookies, does not inherently pose risk on its own. What can become concerning for some users is when user data is collected to build a profile to improve advertisements, which can be seen as invasive by some users and improves the revenue for the advertising by targeting content to users that engage with related subjects. While this type of targeted advertising is nothing new and isn't necessarily malicious on its own, many users find this data collection to feel invasive and prefer to limit a website's access to information that can be built into these types of profiles. 

In a time where personal data is regularly exchanged through the internet, it is important to take some time to review some security practices to limit opportunities for personal data to be stolen. Many accounts and transactions that take place online include terms and services to agree to, which often implicates some sharing of personal data. One way to start to limit access to private data is to practice discretion with creating new accounts online. Another practice that could be done to protect against spyware would be to ensure that you are keeping your browser up to date and have become familiar with its protection against spyware. 

For further reading, Webroot's article dives deeper into ["What is Spyware?"](https://www.webroot.com/us/en/resources/tips-articles/what-is-spyware-and-how-to-detect-it) with more tips and information about protection against spyware.
