---
layout: post
title: "Choosing a Private Browser"
author: skylar_lynner
categories: [ security ]
---

Firefox is one of many options as far as browsers are concerned. It is a common choice and easily available along with providing many extensions for those who want to personalize their browsing experience further. For many, setting up Firefox with some basic privacy settings would be enough to feel comfortable with the increased online privacy. For those who are interested in exploring other options, there has become a selection of browsers providing a wide variety of security features.

Brave stands out as a quick and easy choice for those who already enjoy the extenions offered through Chrome and want to switch to a browser that doesn't require extra time to set up. It blocks ads and trackers without the need for extra extensions, along with built in configuration to increase the security of its Chromium base.

For those who are interested in the step up from using Firefox, the Tor browser is an option that has a similar look and feel to Firefox, but offers protection against browser fingerprinting and incorporates rerouting traffic through a "Tor Circuit" that includes three different connections between the start and end node. This "connection path" provides security by rerouting multiple times, which makes the true location of the device harder to trace as only the exit node is visible. While this browser provides high levels of security along with many privacy options, it may not be an everyday option for many as it can take more time to load websites and the number of websites that block addresses recognized as being from the Tor network. The browser offers many settings, but they should be changed with caution, as changing settings can potentially compromise built-in security.

With the ability to choose from many browsers on phones, it is also important to consider the security and privacy settings. For a phone, this can be especially important to review as many use their phone as their primary device for access to the Internet. Bromite is an option for Android that is Chromium-based and features often missing from other mobile browsing applications. It boasts offering a no-clutter experience and a fast-ad blocking engine.

["Secure Browsers That Protect Your Privacy"](https://restoreprivacy.com/browser/secure/) is an extensive article by Sven Taylor that provides more browser choices for those who are curious, along with a list of popular browsers and why they may not be the best choice.
